[MUSIC]
Welcome back.
In this video, you'll have an opportunity
to meet some of our PWC Professionals,
who'll share with you how the data and
analytics framework is applied
in their area of expertise.
>> Hello, I'm John Gotts.
I help clients solve complex tax
challenges by helping to deliver quality
data to the right people and enable them
with effective processes and technology.
After changing my career focus a few years
ago, I have a significant focus on data
and analytics to improve
how tax professionals work.
This is fundamental in tax.
We must apply the law to the specific
circumstances, and use data for
a tax payer to determine their
obligation to pay tax under the law.
At PWC we think of data as the life
blood of tax professionals.
Without access to quality data,
our ability to provide advice and
guide the business in making
decisions is greatly diminished.
For several years, many tax professionals
have worked with data in whatever format
was provided to them.
This means highly skilled
tax professionals
must spend time collecting and manually
manipulating information for their use.
Changes to the source data often require
a rework of these manual processes.
Not a great use of time for
these subject matter experts.
These challenges play out both
within PWC and at our clients.
The solutions we bring to clients focused
on people, process, data and technology.
Our solutions usually touch
on all four areas and
almost definitely will touch on data.
Helping to deliver quality
information to tax professionals
when they need it is a key
element of our work.
There are many ways we approach these
challenges, including transforming the raw
data, improving the way in which
non-standard data is collected and
using analytics to help visualize or
bring a different perspective to the data.
Tax is a challenging and technical area of
study which traditionally has not how it's
been well understood
throughout organizations.
Analytics is helping to
bring tax to the forefront
since a well crafted analytics report
can communicate in complex content and
improve the ability of
the business to make decisions.
Taxes are deadline driven environment.
So, having a clear understanding of
the organization's obligations and
tracking the status of
those is imperative.
For many organizations, this is
a manual and time consuming process.
We've helped many organizations to
leverage technology to reduce the effort
and risk associated with these activities.
In addition, the technology allows us to
standardize the collection of data across
the globe in real time.
An immediate benefit is that we can
generate analytics on data and produce
reports that allow people to visualize
the information in a different way.
For example, we use a world map to
display the status of tax filings in each
jurisdiction around the world.
This can bring life to information which
historically has been viewed in a two
dimensional spreadsheet and
is usually several days out of date.
Transparency and information reporting
are high in the agenda of tax authorities
around the world.
This requires tax professionals to produce
reports for new and changing requirements.
This is extremely challenging
using traditional approaches.
We have helped several organizations
to rethink the approach to collecting
information for these reports and
reduce the effort and risk in the process.
Having collected the information we
also build analytics to give them deeper
insight into the information so
that they can consider how
the information may be perceived.
This allows them to proactively plan and
provide better insight and
support to the business.
There are diverse skill sets needed to
solve problems using data and analytics.
For me, most importantly is communication.
We often need to address business,
finance, technology, and
tax technical considerations
to solve these problems.
It's rare that one person has
the professional experiences to
solve the problem alone.
As a result, communicating within a team
of diverse individuals is critical.
>> Hello, I'm Vikas Agarwal.
I started my career focused on using data
analytics to help clients solve problems.
This meant thinking about better ways
to collect data, analyze it, and
present it in meaningful ways.
Solving problems using an analytical
approach is a differentiator for
professionals today.
There's such demand for people who
can understand business problems, and
then apply analytics.
The ability to use machines and
computers to help us process information
has rapidly increased
in the last 10 years.
Every time we look at a problem today we
have to think about how we can collect
more information,
how we can process it and visualize it so
we can get a better answer in the end.
I can't think of a use case with
our clients that can't be enhanced.
By using more analytical techniques
that are available today.
Personally I work in financial crime.
And I helped our client used data to
prevent money laundering, fraud, and
identify bad actors externally and
internally.
We used huge amounts of data,
customer data, transactional information
To find needles in the haystack
that lead to the identification
of suicidal issues like human trafficking,
narcotics dealing, and tax evasion.
Today we're using web crawling and
machine learning to identify events and
potential threats to our society
using more data than ever before.
As the need for more analytics increases,
we need to raise the IQ of
every professional to be able to
conduct sophisticated analytics and
breakdown traditional skills of barriers.
>> In this video you heard how we apply
data and analytics to solve problems.
You also heard about the key
skills needed to do so.
You can learn more about data and
analytics careers and
roles at PWC by reading the white
paper that follows this video.
[MUSIC]